Sources :
Quotes 1-50 : https://everydaypower.com/karl-marx-quotes/
Quotes 50+ : https://www.goodreads.com/author/quotes/7084.Karl_Marx

Karl Marx Quotes on Politics
1. “The oppressed are allowed once every few years to decide which particular representatives of the oppressing class are to represent and repress them.” ― Karl Marx

2. “The bureaucracy is a circle from which no one can escape. Its hierarchy is a hierarchy of knowledge.” ― Karl Marx

3. “Democracy is the road to socialism.” ― Karl Marx

4. “A nation cannot become free and at the same time continue to oppress other nations. The liberation of Germany cannot therefore take place without the liberation of Poland from German oppression.” ― Karl Marx

5. “The country that is more developed industrially only shows, to the less developed, the image of its own future.” ― Karl Marx

6. “Political power, properly so called, is merely the organised power of one class for oppressing another.” ― Karl Marx

Karl Marx Quotes on History
7. “History repeats itself, first as tragedy, second as farce.” ― Karl Marx

8. “The history of all previous societies has been the history of class struggles.” ― Karl Marx

9. “Revolutions are the locomotives of history.” ― Karl Marx

10. “Man makes his own history, but he does not make it out of the whole cloth; he does not make it out of conditions chosen by himself, but out of such as he finds close at hand.” ― Karl Marx

11. “History calls those men the greatest who have ennobled themselves by working for the common good; experience acclaims as happiest the man who has made the greatest number of people happy.” ― Karl Marx

12. “History does nothing, it ‘possesses no immense wealth’, it ‘wages no battles’. It is man, real, living man who does all that, who possesses and fights; ‘history’ is not, as it were, a person apart, using man as a means to achieve its own aims; history is nothing but the activity of man pursuing his aims.” ― Karl Marx

13. “History is the judge — its executioner, the proletarian.” ― Karl Marx

14. “The history of all previous societies has been the history of class struggles.” ― Karl Marx

Also read these insightful Lord of the Flies quotes on why humans need structure and rules.

Karl Marx Quotes on Society
15. “The philosophers have only interpreted the world, in various ways. The point, however, is to change it.” ― Karl Marx

16. “Social progress can be measured by the social position of the female sex.” ― Karl Marx

17. “Surround yourself with people who make you happy. People who make you laugh, who help you when you’re in need. People who genuinely care. They are the ones worth keeping in your life. Everyone else is just passing through.” ― Karl Marx

18. “Reason has always existed, but not always in a reasonable form.” ― Karl Marx

19. “Let the ruling classes tremble at a Communistic revolution. The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to win. Workingmen of all countries unite!” ― Karl Marx

20. “Society does not consist of individuals, but expresses the sum of interrelations, the relations within which these individuals stand.” ― Karl Marx

21. “The tradition of all dead generations weighs like a nightmare on the brains of the living.” ― Karl Marx

22. “The production of too many useful things results in too many useless people.” ― Karl Marx

23. “The ruling ideas of each age have ever been the ideas of its ruling class.” ― Karl Marx

24. “To be radical is to go to the root of the matter. For man, however, the root is man himself.” ― Karl Marx

25. “Religion is the opium of the masses.” ― Karl Marx

26. “The hand-mill gives you society with the feudal lord; the steam-mill society with the industrial capitalist.” ― Karl Marx

Karl Marx Quotes on Critical Thinking
27. “I am nothing but I must be everything.” ― Karl Marx

28. “To be radical is to grasp things by the root.” ― Karl Marx

29. “Favourite motto … De omnibus dubitandum [Everything must be doubted].” ― Karl Marx

If you’re enjoying these quotes, make sure to check out our collection of Friedrich Nietzsche quotes on life and love.

30. “Necessity is blind until it becomes conscious. Freedom is the consciousness of necessity.” ― Karl Marx

31. “I am a machine condemned to devour books.” ― Karl Marx

32. “The question whether objective truth can be attributed to human thinking is not a question of theory but is a practical question.” ― Karl Marx

33. “The philosophers have only interpreted the world, in various ways; the point is to change it.” ― Karl Marx

34. “Only your small-minded German philistine who measures world history by the ell and by what he happens to think are ‘interesting news items’, could regard 20 years as more than a day where major developments of this kind are concerned, though these may be again succeeded by days into which 20 years are compressed.” ― Karl Marx

35. “The demand to give up the illusions about its condition is the demand to give up a condition that needs illusions” ― Karl Marx

You might also like these Genghis Khan quotes to bring out the warrior in you.

Karl Marx Quotes on Capitalism
36. “The rich will do anything for the poor but get off their backs.” ― Karl Marx

37. “The last capitalist we hang shall be the one who sold us the rope.” ― Karl Marx

38. “You must be aware that the reward for labour, and quantity of labour, are quite disparate things.” ― Karl Marx

39. “The increase in value of the world of things is directly proportional to the decrease in value of the human world.” ― Karl Marx

40. “Capitalism: Teach a man to fish, but the fish he catches aren’t his. They belong to the person paying him to fish, and if he’s lucky, he might get paid enough to buy a few fish for himself.” ― Karl Marx

41. “The less you eat, drink, buy books, go to the theatre or to balls, or to the pub, and the less you think, love, theorize, sing, paint, fence, etc., the more you will be able to save and the greater will become your treasure which neither moth nor rust will corrupt—your capital. The less you are, the less you express your life, the more you have, the greater is your alienated life and the greater is the saving of your alienated being.” ― Karl Marx

42. “Accumulate, accumulate! This is Moses and the Prophets!” ― Karl Marx

43. “Capital is dead labour, which, vampire-like, lives only by sucking living labour, and lives the more, the more labour it sucks.” ― Karl Marx

44. “Political Economy regards the proletarian … like a horse, he must receive enough to enable him to work. It does not consider him, during the time when he is not working, as a human being. It leaves this to criminal law, doctors, religion, statistical tables, politics, and the beadle.” ― Karl Marx

45. “Machines were, it may be said, the weapon employed by the capitalist to quell the revolt of specialized labor.” ― Karl Marx

46. “Moments are the elements of profit” ― Karl Marx

Karl Marx Quotes on Communism
47. “The theory of Communists may be summed up in the single sentence: Abolition of private property.” ― Karl Marx

48. “Communism is the riddle of history solved, and it knows itself to be this solution.” ― Karl Marx

49. “Landlords like all other men, love to reap where they never sowed.” ― Karl Marx

50. “Nothing can have value without being an object of utility.” ― Karl Marx

Other quotes
51. “The philosophers have only interpreted the world, in various ways. The point, however, is to change it. *[These words are also inscribed upon his grave]* ” ― Karl Marx

52. “Surround yourself with people who make you happy. People who make you laugh, who help you when you’re in need. People who genuinely care. They are the ones worth keeping in your life. Everyone else is just passing through.” ― Karl Marx

53. “The last capitalist we hang shall be the one who sold us the rope.” ― Karl Marx

54. “The foundation of irreligious criticism is: Man makes religion, religion does not make man. Religion is, indeed, the self-consciousness and self-esteem of man who has either not yet won through to himself, or has already lost himself again. But man is no abstract being squatting outside the world. Man is the world of man – state, society. This state and this society produce religion, which is an inverted consciousness of the world, because they are an inverted world... Religious suffering is, at one and the same time, the expression of real suffering and a protest against real suffering. Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, and the soul of soulless conditions. It is the opium of the people. The abolition of religion as the illusory happiness of the people is the demand for their real happiness. To call on them to give up their illusions about their condition is to call on them to give up a condition that requires illusions. The criticism of religion is, therefore, in embryo, the criticism of that vale of tears of which religion is the halo. Criticism has plucked the imaginary flowers on the chain not in order that man shall continue to bear that chain without fantasy or consolation, but so that he shall throw off the chain and pluck the living flower. The criticism of religion disillusions man, so that he will think, act, and fashion his reality like a man who has discarded his illusions and regained his senses, so that he will move around himself as his own true Sun. Religion is only the illusory Sun which revolves around man as long as he does not revolve around himself.” ― Karl Marx

55. “The history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles. Freeman and slave, patrician and plebeian, lord and serf, guildmaster and journeyman, in a word, oppressor and oppressed, stood in constant opposition to one another, carried on an uninterrupted, now hidden, now open fight, that each time ended, either in the revolutionary reconstitution of society at large, or in the common ruin of the contending classes.” ― Karl Marx

56. “Hegel remarks somewhere that all great, world-historical facts and personages occur, as it were, twice. He has forgotten to add: the first time as tragedy, the second as farce.” ― Karl Marx

57. “Men make their own history, but they do not make it as they please; they do not make it under self-selected circumstances, but under circumstances existing already, given and transmitted from the past. The tradition of all dead generations weighs like a nightmare on the brains of the living. And just as they seem to be occupied with revolutionizing themselves and things, creating something that did not exist before, precisely in such epochs of revolutionary crisis they anxiously conjure up the spirits of the past to their service, borrowing from them names, battle slogans, and costumes in order to present this new scene in world history in time-honored disguise and borrowed language.” ― Karl Marx

58. “The less you eat, drink and read books; the less you go to the theatre, the dance hall, the public house; the less you think, love, theorize, sing, paint, fence, etc., the more you save-the greater becomes your treasure which neither moths nor dust will devour-your capital. The less you are, the more you have; the less you express your own life, the greater is your alienated life-the greater is the store of your estranged being.” ― Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels

59. “A specter is haunting Europe—the specter of Communism. All the powers of old Europe have entered into a holy alliance to exorcise this specter; Pope and Czar, Metternich and Guizot, French radicals and German police spies. Where is the party in opposition that has not been decried as Communistic by its opponents in power? Where the opposition that has not hurled back the branding reproach of Communism, against the more advanced opposition parties, as well as against its reactionary adversaries? Two things result from this fact. I. Communism is already acknowledged by all European powers to be in itself a power. II. It is high time that Communists should openly, in the face of the whole world, publish their views, their aims, their tendencies, and meet this nursery tale of the Specter of Communism with a Manifesto of the party itself.” ― Karl Marx

60. “Let the ruling classes tremble at a Communistic revolution. The proletarians have nothing to lose but their chains. They have a world to win. Workingmen of all countries unite!” ― Karl Marx

61. “The bourgeoisie, wherever it has got the upper hand, has put an end to all feudal, patriarchal, idyllic relations. It has pitilessly torn asunder the motley feudal ties that bound man to his 'natural superiors,' and has left remaining no other nexus between man and man than naked self-interest, callous 'cash payment.' It has drowned the most heavenly ecstasies of religious fervor, of chivalrous enthusiasm, of philistine sentimentalism, in the icy water of egotistical calculation. It has resolved personal worth into exchange value, and in place of the numberless indefeasible chartered freedoms, has set up that single, unconscionable freedom—Free Trade. In one word, for exploitation, veiled by religious and political illusions, it has substituted naked, shameless, direct, brutal exploitation. The bourgeoisie has stripped of its halo every occupation hitherto honored and looked up to with reverent awe. It has converted the physician, the lawyer, the priest, the poet, the man of science, into its paid wage laborers. The bourgeoisie has torn away from the family its sentimental veil, and has reduced the family relation to a mere money relation.” ― Karl Marx

62. “Reason has always existed, but not always in a reasonable form.” ― Karl Marx

63. “I am nothing but I must be everything.” ― Karl Marx

64. “To be radical is to grasp things by the root.” ― Karl Marx

65. “Go on, get out! Last words are for fools who haven't said enough!” ― Karl Marx

66. “In a higher phase of communist society, after the enslaving subordination of the individual to the division of labor, and therewith also the antithesis between mental and physical labor, has vanished; after labor has become not only a means of life but life's prime want; after the productive forces have also increased with the all-around development of the individual, and all the springs of co-operative wealth flow more abundantly—only then can the narrow horizon of bourgeois right be crossed in its entirety and society inscribe on its banners: From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs!” ― Karl Marx

67. “It is not the consciousness of men that determines their being, but, on the contrary, their social being that determines their consciousness.” ― Karl Marx

68. “The bourgeoisie cannot exist without constantly revolutionizing the instruments of production, and thereby the relations of production, and with them the whole relations of society. Conservation of the old modes of production in unaltered forms, was, on the contrary, the first condition of existence for all earlier industrial classes. Constant revolutionizing of production, uninterrupted disturbance of all social conditions, everlasting uncertainty and agitation, distinguish the bourgeois epoch from all earlier ones. All fixed, fast-frozen relations, with their train of ancient and venerable prejudices and opinions, are swept away; all new-formed ones become antiquated before they can ossify. All that is solid melts into air, all that is holy is profaned, and man is at last compelled to face with sober senses his real conditions of life and his relations with his kind.” ― Karl Marx

69. “...[G]reat progress was evident in the last Congress of the American 'Labour Union' in that among other things, it treated working women with complete equality. While in this respect the English, and still more the gallant French, are burdened with a spirit of narrow-mindedness. Anybody who knows anything of history knows that great social changes are impossible without the feminine ferment. Social progress can be measured exactly by the social position of the fair sex (the ugly ones included).” ― Karl Marx

70. “The ideas of the ruling class are in every epoch the ruling ideas, i.e. the class which is the ruling material force of society, is at the same time its ruling intellectual force. The class which has the means of material production at its disposal, has control at the same time over the means of mental production, so that thereby, generally speaking, the ideas of those who lack the means of mental production are subject to it. The ruling ideas are nothing more than the ideal expression of the dominant material relationships, the dominant material relationships grasped as ideas.” ― Karl Marx

71. “Religion is the impotence of the human mind to deal with occurrences it cannot understand.” ― Karl Marx

72. “If anything is certain, it is that I myself am not a Marxist. *[In a letter about the peculiar 'Marxism' which arose in France 1882]* ” ― Karl Marx

73. “The proletarians have nothing to loose but their chains. They have a world to win.” ― Karl Marx

74. “There is no royal road to science, and only those who do not dread the fatiguing climb of its steep paths have a chance of gaining its luminous summits.” ― Karl Marx

75. “If *money* is the bond binding me to *human* life, binding society to me, connecting me with nature and man, is not money the bond of all *bonds*? Can it not dissolve and bind all ties? Is it not, therefore, also the universal *agent* of *separation*?” ― Karl Marx

76. “The bourgeoisie, by the rapid improvement of all instruments of production, by the immensely facilitated means of communication, draws all, even the most barbarian, nations into civilization. The cheap prices of its commodities are the heavy artillery with which it batters down all Chinese walls, with which it forces the barbarians' intensely obstinate hatred of foreigners to capitulate. It compels all nations, on pain of extinction, to adopt the bourgeois mode of production; it compels them to introduce what it calls civilization into their midst, i.e., to become bourgeois themselves. In one word, it creates a world after its own image.” ― Karl Marx

77. “Modern bourgeois society with its relations of production, of exchange, and of property, a society that has conjured up such gigantic means of production and of exchange, is like the sorcerer, who is no longer able to control the powers of the nether world whom he has called up by his spells.” ― Karl Marx

78. “For as soon as the distribution of labour comes into being, each man has a particular, exclusive sphere of activity, which is forced upon him and from which he cannot escape. He is a hunter, a fisherman, a herdsman, or a critical critic, and must remain so if he does not want to lose his means of livelihood; while in communist society, where nobody has one exclusive sphere of activity but each can become accomplished in any branch he wishes, society regulates the general production and thus makes it possible for me to do one thing today and another tomorrow, to hunt in the morning, fish in the afternoon, rear cattle in the evening, criticise after dinner, just as I have a mind, without ever becoming hunter, fisherman, herdsman or critic.” ― Karl Marx

79. “In proportion therefore, as the repulsiveness of the work increases, the wage decreases.” ― Karl Marx

80. “Communism is the riddle of history solved, and it knows itself to be this solution.” ― Karl Marx

81. “You are horrified at our intending to do away with private property. But in your existing society private property is already done away with for nine-tenths of the population; its existence for the few is solely due to its non-existence in the hands of those nine-tenths. You reproach us, therefore, with intending to do away with a form of property, the necessary condition for whose existence is the non-existence of any property for the immense majority of society. In one word, you reproach us with intending to do away with your property. Precisely so: that is just what we intend.” ― Karl Marx

82. “Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world and the soul of soulless conditions. It is the opium of the people.” ― Karl Marx

83. “Under no pretext should arms and ammunition be surrendered; any attempt to disarm the workers must be frustrated, by force if necessary” ― Karl Marx

84. “The tradition of all dead generations weighs like a nightmare on the brains of the living.” ― Karl Marx

85. “Society does not consist of individuals, but expresses the sum of interrelations, the relations within which these individuals stand.” ― Karl Marx

86. “The less you eat, drink, buy books, go to the theatre or to balls, or to the pub, and the less you think, love, theorize, sing, paint, fence, etc., the more you will be able to save and the greater will become your treasure which neither moth nor rust will corrupt—your capital. The less you are, the less you express your life, the more you have, the greater is your alienated life and the greater is the saving of your alienated being.” ― Karl Marx

87. “Communism deprives no man of the power to appropriate the products of society: all that it does is to deprive him of the power to subjugate the labor of others by means of such appropriation. It has been objected, that upon the abolition of private property all work will cease, and universal laziness will overtake us. According to this, bourgeois society ought long ago to have gone to the dogs through sheer idleness; for those of its members who work, acquire nothing, and those who acquire anything, do not work.” ― Karl Marx

88. “Then the world will be for the common people, and the sounds of happiness will reach the deepest springs. Ah! Come! People of every land, how can you not be roused.” ― Karl Marx

89. “We have no compassion and we ask no compassion from you. When our turn comes, we shall not make excuses for the terror. *[from Suppression of the Neue Rheinische Zeitung]* ” ― Karl Marx

90. “Labor in the white skin can never free itself as long as labor in the black skin is branded.” ― Karl Marx

91. “The increase in value of the world of things is directly proportional to the decrease in value of the human world.” ― Karl Marx

92. “And here it becomes evident that the bourgeoisie is unfit any longer to be the ruling class in society and to impose its conditions of existence upon society as an over-riding law. It is unfit to rule because it is incompetent to assure an existence to its slave within his slavery, because it cannot help letting him sink into such a state that it has to feed him instead of being fed by him. Society can no longer live under this bourgeoisie; in other words, its existence is no longer compatible with society. The essential condition for the existence, and for the sway of the bourgeois class, is the formation and augmentation of capital; the condition for capital is wage-labor. Wage-labor rests exclusively on competition between the laborers. The advance of industry, whose involuntary promoter is the bourgeoisie, replaces the isolation of the laborers, due to competition, by their revolutionary combination, due to association. The development of modern industry, therefore, cuts from under its feet the very foundation on which the bourgeoisie produces and appropriates products. What the bourgeoisie therefore produces, above all, are its own grave diggers. Its fall and the victory of the proletariat are equally inevitable.” ― Karl Marx

93. “If you love without evoking love in return - if through the vital expression of yourself as a loving person you fail to become a loved person, then your love is impotent, it is a misfortune.” ― Karl Marx

94. “Communism is for us not a state of affairs which is to be established, an ideal to which reality [will] have to adjust itself. We call communism the real movement which abolishes the present state of things. The conditions of this movement result from the premises now in existence.” ― Karl Marx

95. “The production of too many useful things results in too many useless people.” ― Karl Marx

96. “But modern bourgeois private property is the final and most complete expression of the system of producing and appropriating products, that is based on class antagonisms, on the exploitation of the many by the few.” ― Karl Marx

97. “The ruling ideas of each age have ever been the ideas of its ruling class.” ― Karl Marx

98. “The education of all children, from the moment that they can get along without a mother's care, shall be in state institutions.” ― Karl Marx

99. “Capital is dead labour, which, vampire-like, lives only by sucking living labour, and lives the more, the more labour it sucks.” ― Karl Marx

100. “In the social production of their existence, men inevitably enter into definite relations, which are independent of their will, namely relations of production appropriate to a given stage in the development of their material forces of production. The totality of these relations of production constitutes the economic structure of society, the real foundation, on which arises a legal and political superstructure and to which correspond definite forms of social consciousness. The mode of production of material life conditions the general process of social, political and intellectual life. It is not the consciousness of men that determines their existence, but their social existence that determines their consciousness. At a certain stage of development, the material productive forces of society come into conflict with the existing relations of production or – this merely expresses the same thing in legal terms – with the property relations within the framework of which they have operated hitherto. From forms of development of the productive forces these relations turn into their fetters. Then begins an era of social revolution. The changes in the economic foundation lead sooner or later to the transformation of the whole immense superstructure.” ― Karl Marx